Migration from LBO to manual deployment (#1765)
lagom/lagom: docs/manual/java/releases/Migration15.md

## ConductR

ConductR is no longer supported with Lagom 1.5.

We recommend migrating to Kubernetes, DC/OS or another deployment solution before upgrading. If you are using ConductR in production and need assistance migrating to other solutions please [contact Lightbend](https://www.lightbend.com/contact).

See Deployment below.

## Lightbend Orchestration

[Lightbend Orchestration](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/lightbend-orchestration/current/) is not supported with Lagom 1.5. If you used Lightbend Orchestration for your deployment you will have to migrate to a manual process. This migration may happen on the same commit where you upgrade to Lagom 1.5.0 or you can upgrade your deployment process on a first step (still using Lagom 1.4.x) and later upgrade to Lagom 1.5.0.

See Deployment below.

## Deployment

ConductR tooling and Lightbend Orchestration handled all the required pieces to deploy on ConductR and Kubernetes or DC/OS. Lagom 1.5.0 only supports a manually maintained deployment process.

In particular, ConductR tooling and Lightbend Orchestration handled some or all of the following:

> 1. extend the your application with: cluster bootstrapping, akka management and health checks

Reviewer: the your

Author: https://github.blog/changelog/2018-10-16-suggested-changes/ 😛

Reviewer: I wasn't sure about the sentence on this one, so I just pointed out the typo.

2. Service Location
3. setup and produce docker images

> 4. prepare the deployment specs for the target orchestrator

Reviewer: s/prepare/preparing/

You start the sentence with "ConductR and LBO handled some or all of the following" so you have to continue using the past tense for all the elements ("setting up and producing docker images", "extending ..." etc)

Author: So instead of:

```
In particular, ConductR tooling and Lightbend Orchestration handled some or all of the following:

1. extend the application with: cluster bootstrapping, akka management and health checks
2. Service Location
3. setup and produce docker images
4. prepare the deployment specs for the target orchestrator
5. Secrets
```

I should use:

```
In particular, ConductR tooling and Lightbend Orchestration handled some or all of the following:

1. extending the application with: cluster bootstrapping, akka management and health checks
2. providing a Service Location implementation
3. setting up and producing docker images
4. preparing the deployment specs for the target orchestrator
5. accessing Secrets
```
?

Reviewer: Yes, that's fine.  You can also keep "Service Location" and "Secrets" as nouns.

5. Secrets

#### Application extensions

> Starting with Lagom 1.5 your application will include [[Akka management HTTP|Cluster#Akka-Management]] out of the box with [[health checks|Cluster#Health-Checks]] enabled by default. Cluster formation also supports [[Cluster Bootstrapping|Cluster#Joining-during-production-(Akka-Cluster-Bootstrap)]] as a new way to form a cluster. These new defaults may require at least two changes on your codebase. First, if you want to opt-in to cluster bootstrapping you must make sure you don't set `seed-nodes`. Second, if you use Cluster Bootstrapping, you will have to setup a [[discovery|Cluster#Akka-Discovery]] mechanism (see the [[reference guide|Cluster#Akka-Discovery]] for more details). 

Reviewer: > Starting with Lagom 1.5 your application will include [[Akka management HTTP|Cluster#Akka-Management]] out of the box with [[health checks|Cluster#Health-Checks]] enabled by default.

Maybe explain that Akka Management HTTP is included _in order_ to define health checks for the cluster.  Otherwise it remains unclear why it's added (IMO).

#### Service Location

> You will have to add a `ServiceLocator `of your choice. We recommend using the new [`lagom-akka-discovery-service-locator`](https://github.com/lagom/lagom-akka-discovery-service-locator) which is implemented using [Akka Service Discovery](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/discovery/index.html) implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Lagom 1.5 you will have to specify a Lagom `ServiceLocator` implementation to use.  The recommended choice is the one we developed on top of [Akka Service Discovery](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/discovery/index.html) which is therefore called [`lagom-akka-discovery-service-locator`](https://github.com/lagom/lagom-akka-discovery-service-locator).
```

Author: Users always had to provide a `ServiceLocator`implementation so both my original writing and the suggestion are misleading. I'll rephrase.

Read the [docs](https://github.com/lagom/lagom-akka-discovery-service-locator) of the new `lagom-akka-discovery-service-locator` for details on how to setup the Akka Service Discovery [method](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/discovery/index.html). For example, 

```
akka {
  discovery {
   method = akka-dns
  }
}
```

#### Docker images and deployment specs

> Regarding docker images and deployment specs, once you remove external tooling you will have to setup and maintain them manually. Instead of producing the `Dockerfile`, deployment scripts produced by tooling and orchestration specs from scratch, use the tooling to create these files and add them to git. You can later review and maintain them at will.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the removal of ConductR or Lightbend Orchestration, the docker images and deployment specs will have to be maintained manually. Therefore the recommended migration is to take ownership of the `Dockerfile`, deployment scripts and orchestration specs created by such tooling, such as by committing them to the source repository and then maintaining them.  We also found that such maintenance can be made easier by making use of [kustomize](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize).
```

Author: Oh, that's a lot better. Thanks! :-)
